critique-by-design.md, before:

| [home page](https://hparmar2907.github.io/hparmar-dataviz-portfolio/) | [data viz examples](dataviz-examples) | [Visualizing Government Debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Greenhouse Gases, Clearer: Redesigning NOAA’s Figure 4 for Comparative Insight
This project began as a critique of Figure 4 from NOAA’s Annual Greenhouse Gas Index (AGGI) report — a visualization showing the long-term increase of greenhouse gases since 1750. While the original figure is scientifically rigorous and visually clean, it’s primarily designed for technical audiences and makes it difficult to compare individual gases or explore specific time periods.

Using Stephen Few’s Data Visualization Effectiveness Profile, I analyzed the figure across seven criteria, identifying strengths in accuracy and completeness but weaknesses in intuitiveness and engagement. From there, I set out to redesign the visualization to make it more interactive, comparative, and accessible. My redesign allows users to click any year as a baseline and view how concentrations of each greenhouse gas have changed relative to that point, while also displaying the percentage change over time.

This portfolio entry documents my full process — from critique and sketches to feedback and redesign — and reflects on how small design choices can make complex scientific data more understandable and engaging for broader audiences.

## Step one: the visualization

**[Original Source](https://gml.noaa.gov/aggi/aggi.html)**  
I selected this data visualization because it offers a comprehensive, long-term view of greenhouse gas trends, tracing atmospheric CO₂ and total greenhouse gas forcing from 1750 to the present. The figure effectively communicates the magnitude of change over centuries and serves as an authoritative source grounded in scientific data. However, its design—while precise—feels heavily geared toward expert audiences. The technical terminology, dual y-axes, and lack of contextual cues (like key policy events or clearly marked baselines) make it difficult for general readers to interpret.

I found this visualization compelling because it sits at the intersection of scientific rigor and public communication. Climate data is inherently complex, and this figure captures that complexity beautifully but without much accessibility. That tension made it an ideal candidate for critique and redesign: I wanted to explore how thoughtful visual design and interactivity could make such information clearer, more comparative, and more engaging without sacrificing accuracy.


## Step two: the critique
Using Stephen Few’s Data Visualization Effectiveness Profile, I evaluated NOAA’s Figure 4 across seven criteria: usefulness, completeness, perceptibility, truthfulness, intuitiveness, aesthetics, and engagement. The figure is highly accurate and comprehensive, clearly depicting the long-term rise in greenhouse gases and the relationship between CO₂, CO₂-equivalent concentrations, and the AGGI index. It succeeds in its truthfulness and usefulness for technical audiences such as scientists and policymakers, offering reliable, well-cited data that supports evidence-based discussions.

However, the visualization also presents several accessibility and interpretability challenges. The use of dual y-axes requires additional cognitive effort and can confuse viewers unfamiliar with the difference between concentration and index values. Terms like AGGI and CO₂-equivalent abundance are not defined visually, making the figure less intuitive for non-experts. While the aesthetics are clean and professional, the chart lacks narrative or contextual elements—such as historical milestones, annotations, or interactive cues—that could make the data more engaging and easier to connect to real-world events.

Through this critique, I realized how small design choices—like labeling the 1990 baseline or providing a quick explanation of key terms—could make the visualization far more approachable without compromising accuracy. This analysis directly informed my redesign goals: to create a version that retains the scientific rigor of the original while improving comparability, interactivity, and overall user understanding.

## Step three: Sketch a solution
<div class='tableauPlaceholder' id='viz1763046460057' style='position: relative'><noscript><a href='#'><img alt='Greenhouse gases have continued to increase in the atmosphere from 1979 to 2021But how do they compare to 2014?CLICK A YEAR TO COMPARE ' src='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Gr&#47;GreenhouseGases_17628966707180&#47;Sheet23&#47;1_rss.png' style='border: none' /></a></noscript><object class='tableauViz'  style='display:none;'><param name='host_url' value='https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F' /> <param name='embed_code_version' value='3' /> <param name='site_root' value='' /><param name='name' value='GreenhouseGases_17628966707180&#47;Sheet23' /><param name='tabs' value='no' /><param name='toolbar' value='yes' /><param name='static_image' value='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Gr&#47;GreenhouseGases_17628966707180&#47;Sheet23&#47;1.png' /> <param name='animate_transition' value='yes' /><param name='display_static_image' value='yes' /><param name='display_spinner' value='yes' /><param name='display_overlay' value='yes' /><param name='display_count' value='yes' /><param name='language' value='en-US' /><param name='filter' value='publish=yes' /></object></div><script type='text/javascript'>var divElement = document.getElementById('viz1763046460057');                    var vizElement = divElement.getElementsByTagName('object')[0];vizElement.style.width='100%';vizElement.style.height=(divElement.offsetWidth*0.75)+'px';var scriptElement = document.createElement('script');scriptElement.src = 'https://public.tableau.com/javascripts/api/viz_v1.js'; vizElement.parentNode.insertBefore(scriptElement, vizElement);</script>

## Step four: Test the solution

_Before you conduct your interviews, prepare a simple script.  Use this as a guide and as a way to take notes as you go forward. Come up with your own list of questions you want to ask for the selected visualization. Keep the questions broad so you can get the most value out of your feedback. Then, document answers to your questions here._

Questions to ask (modify these for your own interviews): 

- Can you tell me what you think this is?

- Can you describe to me what this is telling you?

- Is there anything you find surprising or confusing?

- Who do you think is the intended audience for this?

- Is there anything you would change or do differently?

Results: 

_Don't identify or share personally identifiable information (PII) about the people you spoke to._


| Question | Interview 1 | Interview 2 |
|----------|-------------|-------------|
|          |             |             |
|          |             |             |
|          |             |             |

Synthesis: 

_What patterns in the feedback emerge?  What did you learn from the feedback?  Based on this feedback, come up with what design changes you think might make the most sense in your final redesign._

## Step five: build the solution

_Include and describe your final solution here. It's also a good idea to summarize your thoughts on the process overall. When you're done with the assignment, this page should all the items mentioned in the assignment page on Canvas(a link or screenshot of the original data visualization, documentation explaining your process, a summary of your wireframes and user feedback, your final, redesigned data visualization, etc.)._

## References
_List any references you used here._

## AI acknowledgements
_If you used AI to help you complete this assignment (within the parameters of the instruction and course guidelines), detail your use of AI for this assignment here._

Commit message:

Enhance critique and redesign goals for visualization
Expanded on the critique process and outlined redesign goals for improving the presentation of greenhouse gas data. Introduced a small-multiples layout for better interactivity and user engagement.

critique-by-design.md, after:

| [home page](https://hparmar2907.github.io/hparmar-dataviz-portfolio/) | [data viz examples](dataviz-examples) | [Visualizing Government Debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Greenhouse Gases, Clearer: Redesigning NOAA’s Figure 4 for Comparative Insight
This project began as a critique of Figure 4 from NOAA’s Annual Greenhouse Gas Index (AGGI) report — a visualization showing the long-term increase of greenhouse gases since 1750. While the original figure is scientifically rigorous and visually clean, it’s primarily designed for technical audiences and makes it difficult to compare individual gases or explore specific time periods.

Using Stephen Few’s Data Visualization Effectiveness Profile, I analyzed the figure across seven criteria, identifying strengths in accuracy and completeness but weaknesses in intuitiveness and engagement. From there, I set out to redesign the visualization to make it more interactive, comparative, and accessible. My redesign allows users to click any year as a baseline and view how concentrations of each greenhouse gas have changed relative to that point, while also displaying the percentage change over time.

This portfolio entry documents my full process — from critique and sketches to feedback and redesign — and reflects on how small design choices can make complex scientific data more understandable and engaging for broader audiences.

## Step one: the visualization

**[Original Source](https://gml.noaa.gov/aggi/aggi.html)**  
I selected this data visualization because it offers a comprehensive, long-term view of greenhouse gas trends, tracing atmospheric CO₂ and total greenhouse gas forcing from 1750 to the present. The figure effectively communicates the magnitude of change over centuries and serves as an authoritative source grounded in scientific data. However, its design—while precise—feels heavily geared toward expert audiences. The technical terminology, dual y-axes, and lack of contextual cues (like key policy events or clearly marked baselines) make it difficult for general readers to interpret.

I found this visualization compelling because it sits at the intersection of scientific rigor and public communication. Climate data is inherently complex, and this figure captures that complexity beautifully but without much accessibility. That tension made it an ideal candidate for critique and redesign: I wanted to explore how thoughtful visual design and interactivity could make such information clearer, more comparative, and more engaging without sacrificing accuracy.


## Step two: the critique
Using Stephen Few’s Data Visualization Effectiveness Profile, I evaluated NOAA’s Figure 4 across seven criteria: usefulness, completeness, perceptibility, truthfulness, intuitiveness, aesthetics, and engagement. The figure is highly accurate and comprehensive, clearly depicting the long-term rise in greenhouse gases and the relationship between CO₂, CO₂-equivalent concentrations, and the AGGI index. It succeeds in its truthfulness and usefulness for technical audiences such as scientists and policymakers, offering reliable, well-cited data that supports evidence-based discussions.

However, the visualization also presents several accessibility and interpretability challenges. The use of dual y-axes requires additional cognitive effort and can confuse viewers unfamiliar with the difference between concentration and index values. Terms like AGGI and CO₂-equivalent abundance are not defined visually, making the figure less intuitive for non-experts. While the aesthetics are clean and professional, the chart lacks narrative or contextual elements—such as historical milestones, annotations, or interactive cues—that could make the data more engaging and easier to connect to real-world events.

Through this critique, I realized how small design choices—like labeling the 1990 baseline or providing a quick explanation of key terms—could make the visualization far more approachable without compromising accuracy. This analysis directly informed my redesign goals: to create a version that retains the scientific rigor of the original while improving comparability, interactivity, and overall user understanding.

## Step three: Sketch a solution
After completing my critique, I began thinking about how I could preserve the scientific precision of NOAA’s original visualization while making it easier for a broader audience to interpret. The critique process helped me identify two main issues: the lack of direct comparability between individual greenhouse gases and the static, expert-oriented design that limited engagement. I realized that the data itself was rich — the challenge was how to present it in a way that encouraged exploration. That insight shaped my redesign goals: to create something more interactive, comparative, and intuitive. I wanted users not only to see that greenhouse gases have risen but to actively explore how and by how much each one has changed over time. This led me to a small-multiples layout, where each gas would have its own panel, paired with an interactive feature allowing users to click any year to set a baseline and instantly view percentage changes relative to that point. What began as a critique of a static figure turned into a design exploration focused on turning climate data into a more accessible and engaging story.

<div class='tableauPlaceholder' id='viz1763046460057' style='position: relative'><noscript><a href='#'><img alt='Greenhouse gases have continued to increase in the atmosphere from 1979 to 2021But how do they compare to 2014?CLICK A YEAR TO COMPARE ' src='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Gr&#47;GreenhouseGases_17628966707180&#47;Sheet23&#47;1_rss.png' style='border: none' /></a></noscript><object class='tableauViz'  style='display:none;'><param name='host_url' value='https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F' /> <param name='embed_code_version' value='3' /> <param name='site_root' value='' /><param name='name' value='GreenhouseGases_17628966707180&#47;Sheet23' /><param name='tabs' value='no' /><param name='toolbar' value='yes' /><param name='static_image' value='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Gr&#47;GreenhouseGases_17628966707180&#47;Sheet23&#47;1.png' /> <param name='animate_transition' value='yes' /><param name='display_static_image' value='yes' /><param name='display_spinner' value='yes' /><param name='display_overlay' value='yes' /><param name='display_count' value='yes' /><param name='language' value='en-US' /><param name='filter' value='publish=yes' /></object></div><script type='text/javascript'>var divElement = document.getElementById('viz1763046460057');                    var vizElement = divElement.getElementsByTagName('object')[0];vizElement.style.width='100%';vizElement.style.height=(divElement.offsetWidth*0.75)+'px';var scriptElement = document.createElement('script');scriptElement.src = 'https://public.tableau.com/javascripts/api/viz_v1.js'; vizElement.parentNode.insertBefore(scriptElement, vizElement);</script>

## Step four: Test the solution

_Before you conduct your interviews, prepare a simple script.  Use this as a guide and as a way to take notes as you go forward. Come up with your own list of questions you want to ask for the selected visualization. Keep the questions broad so you can get the most value out of your feedback. Then, document answers to your questions here._

Questions to ask (modify these for your own interviews): 

- Can you tell me what you think this is?

- Can you describe to me what this is telling you?

- Is there anything you find surprising or confusing?

- Who do you think is the intended audience for this?

- Is there anything you would change or do differently?

Results: 

_Don't identify or share personally identifiable information (PII) about the people you spoke to._


| Question | Interview 1 | Interview 2 |
|----------|-------------|-------------|
|          |             |             |
|          |             |             |
|          |             |             |

Synthesis: 

_What patterns in the feedback emerge?  What did you learn from the feedback?  Based on this feedback, come up with what design changes you think might make the most sense in your final redesign._

## Step five: build the solution

_Include and describe your final solution here. It's also a good idea to summarize your thoughts on the process overall. When you're done with the assignment, this page should all the items mentioned in the assignment page on Canvas(a link or screenshot of the original data visualization, documentation explaining your process, a summary of your wireframes and user feedback, your final, redesigned data visualization, etc.)._

## References
_List any references you used here._

## AI acknowledgements
_If you used AI to help you complete this assignment (within the parameters of the instruction and course guidelines), detail your use of AI for this assignment here._
