dataviz-examples.md, before:

| [home page](https://hparmar2907.github.io/hparmar-dataviz-portfolio/) | [data viz examples](dataviz-examples) | [Visualizing Government Debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Data visualization examples
<div class='tableauPlaceholder' id='viz1761854923784' style='position: relative'><noscript><a href='#'><img alt='Trust in new organizationsSource: Simmons Research, 2018 ' src='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;fa&#47;fall2025_17618548975860&#47;Sheet1&#47;1_rss.png' style='border: none' /></a></noscript><object class='tableauViz'  style='display:none;'><param name='host_url' value='https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F' /> <param name='embed_code_version' value='3' /> <param name='site_root' value='' /><param name='name' value='fall2025_17618548975860&#47;Sheet1' /><param name='tabs' value='no' /><param name='toolbar' value='yes' /><param name='static_image' value='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;fa&#47;fall2025_17618548975860&#47;Sheet1&#47;1.png' /> <param name='animate_transition' value='yes' /><param name='display_static_image' value='yes' /><param name='display_spinner' value='yes' /><param name='display_overlay' value='yes' /><param name='display_count' value='yes' /><param name='language' value='en-US' /><param name='filter' value='publish=yes' /></object></div><script type='text/javascript'> var divElement = document.getElementById('viz1761854923784');                    var vizElement = divElement.getElementsByTagName('object')[0]; vizElement.style.width='100%';vizElement.style.height=(divElement.offsetWidth*0.75)+'px'; var scriptElement = document.createElement('script'); scriptElement.src = 'https://public.tableau.com/javascripts/api/viz_v1.js'; vizElement.parentNode.insertBefore(scriptElement, vizElement); </script>

## Chart: General Government Debt (% of GDP, 2020)

The chart below, sourced from the OECD, illustrates the percentage of general government debt as a share of GDP for various countries in 2020.  
Japan and Italy show the highest debt levels (over 150% of GDP), while countries such as Estonia, Chile, and Türkiye have relatively low debt ratios.  
The United States and Canada fall near the middle, indicating moderate debt levels compared to other major economies.

![General Government Debt Chart](export-2025-11-02T17_18_02.018Z.png)

**Source:** [OECD - Public finance main indicators: Government at a glance, Yearly updates](https://data.oecd.org/gga/general-government-debt.htm)

<div class='tableauPlaceholder' id='viz1762122643437' style='position: relative'><noscript><a href='#'><img alt='Debt-to-GDP by Country (1995–2018)Source: https:&#47;&#47;www.oecd.org&#47;en&#47;data&#47;indicators&#47;general-government-debt.html ' src='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Vi&#47;VisualizingGovernmentDebt_17621225982940&#47;Sheet1&#47;1_rss.png' style='border: none' /></a></noscript><object class='tableauViz'  style='display:none;'><param name='host_url' value='https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F' /> <param name='embed_code_version' value='3' /> <param name='site_root' value='' /><param name='name' value='VisualizingGovernmentDebt_17621225982940&#47;Sheet1' /><param name='tabs' value='no' /><param name='toolbar' value='yes' /><param name='static_image' value='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Vi&#47;VisualizingGovernmentDebt_17621225982940&#47;Sheet1&#47;1.png' /> <param name='animate_transition' value='yes' /><param name='display_static_image' value='yes' /><param name='display_spinner' value='yes' /><param name='display_overlay' value='yes' /><param name='display_count' value='yes' /><param name='language' value='en-US' /><param name='filter' value='publish=yes' /></object></div> <script type='text/javascript'> var divElement = document.getElementById('viz1762122643437');  var vizElement = divElement.getElementsByTagName('object')[0];vizElement.style.width='100%';vizElement.style.height=(divElement.offsetWidth*0.75)+'px'; var scriptElement = document.createElement('script');                    scriptElement.src = 'https://public.tableau.com/javascripts/api/viz_v1.js'; vizElement.parentNode.insertBefore(scriptElement, vizElement);</script>

Commit message:

Enhance data visualization examples with introduction
Added introductory text to data visualization examples section.

dataviz-examples.md, after:

| [home page](https://hparmar2907.github.io/hparmar-dataviz-portfolio/) | [data viz examples](dataviz-examples) | [Visualizing Government Debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Data visualization examples
Here are a few data visualization examples that we practiced in class. These exercises helped us explore different chart types, storytelling techniques, and ways to present complex information more clearly and effectively.

<div class='tableauPlaceholder' id='viz1761854923784' style='position: relative'><noscript><a href='#'><img alt='Trust in new organizationsSource: Simmons Research, 2018 ' src='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;fa&#47;fall2025_17618548975860&#47;Sheet1&#47;1_rss.png' style='border: none' /></a></noscript><object class='tableauViz'  style='display:none;'><param name='host_url' value='https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F' /> <param name='embed_code_version' value='3' /> <param name='site_root' value='' /><param name='name' value='fall2025_17618548975860&#47;Sheet1' /><param name='tabs' value='no' /><param name='toolbar' value='yes' /><param name='static_image' value='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;fa&#47;fall2025_17618548975860&#47;Sheet1&#47;1.png' /> <param name='animate_transition' value='yes' /><param name='display_static_image' value='yes' /><param name='display_spinner' value='yes' /><param name='display_overlay' value='yes' /><param name='display_count' value='yes' /><param name='language' value='en-US' /><param name='filter' value='publish=yes' /></object></div><script type='text/javascript'> var divElement = document.getElementById('viz1761854923784');                    var vizElement = divElement.getElementsByTagName('object')[0]; vizElement.style.width='100%';vizElement.style.height=(divElement.offsetWidth*0.75)+'px'; var scriptElement = document.createElement('script'); scriptElement.src = 'https://public.tableau.com/javascripts/api/viz_v1.js'; vizElement.parentNode.insertBefore(scriptElement, vizElement); </script>

## Chart: General Government Debt (% of GDP, 2020)

The chart below, sourced from the OECD, illustrates the percentage of general government debt as a share of GDP for various countries in 2020.  
Japan and Italy show the highest debt levels (over 150% of GDP), while countries such as Estonia, Chile, and Türkiye have relatively low debt ratios.  
The United States and Canada fall near the middle, indicating moderate debt levels compared to other major economies.

![General Government Debt Chart](export-2025-11-02T17_18_02.018Z.png)

**Source:** [OECD - Public finance main indicators: Government at a glance, Yearly updates](https://data.oecd.org/gga/general-government-debt.htm)

<div class='tableauPlaceholder' id='viz1762122643437' style='position: relative'><noscript><a href='#'><img alt='Debt-to-GDP by Country (1995–2018)Source: https:&#47;&#47;www.oecd.org&#47;en&#47;data&#47;indicators&#47;general-government-debt.html ' src='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Vi&#47;VisualizingGovernmentDebt_17621225982940&#47;Sheet1&#47;1_rss.png' style='border: none' /></a></noscript><object class='tableauViz'  style='display:none;'><param name='host_url' value='https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F' /> <param name='embed_code_version' value='3' /> <param name='site_root' value='' /><param name='name' value='VisualizingGovernmentDebt_17621225982940&#47;Sheet1' /><param name='tabs' value='no' /><param name='toolbar' value='yes' /><param name='static_image' value='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Vi&#47;VisualizingGovernmentDebt_17621225982940&#47;Sheet1&#47;1.png' /> <param name='animate_transition' value='yes' /><param name='display_static_image' value='yes' /><param name='display_spinner' value='yes' /><param name='display_overlay' value='yes' /><param name='display_count' value='yes' /><param name='language' value='en-US' /><param name='filter' value='publish=yes' /></object></div> <script type='text/javascript'> var divElement = document.getElementById('viz1762122643437');  var vizElement = divElement.getElementsByTagName('object')[0];vizElement.style.width='100%';vizElement.style.height=(divElement.offsetWidth*0.75)+'px'; var scriptElement = document.createElement('script');                    scriptElement.src = 'https://public.tableau.com/javascripts/api/viz_v1.js'; vizElement.parentNode.insertBefore(scriptElement, vizElement);</script>
