final-project-part-two.md, before:

| [home page](https://hparmar2907.github.io/hparmar-dataviz-portfolio/) | [data viz examples](dataviz-examples) | [Visualizing Government Debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# From Stability to Strain: How Rising Costs Are Outpacing Student Earnings

# Storyboards
When I began this project, my initial goal was straightforward: I wanted to compare how much housing costs had changed over time. But after classroom feedback and the critique-by-design exercise, it became clear that the story wasn’t just about housing or inflation—it was about something deeper and more relatable. Students today are facing a widening financial gap where the cost of simply existing (rent, food, tuition) is rising much faster than what they earn.

This realization shifted the entire scope of the project. Instead of looking at isolated datasets, I expanded the analysis to include housing CPI, food CPI, tuition costs, and student earnings. Bringing these datasets together allowed me to tell a fuller, more honest story of the student financial reality today—one where budgets are tighter, trade-offs are harsher, and affordability is becoming increasingly out of reach.

The structure of the storyboard follows this progression:

Start with cost-of-living pressures — showing how basic necessities like housing have risen year after year.

Layer in tuition costs — revealing how education affordability has changed in the same timeframe.

Contrast both with student earnings — highlighting the imbalance between rising expenses and stagnant wage growth.

This narrative shift allowed me to move beyond simply describing what costs look like, and instead begin exploring why students feel more financially strained today, even compared with just ten years ago. It also helped uncover a core insight: the issue isn’t just inflation—it’s that income is not keeping pace.

Ultimately, this project is not only about numbers. It’s about understanding the student experience in a landscape where everything feels more expensive except the one thing students rely on the most: their paycheck. A chart about CPI becomes a chart about affordability. A line showing tuition becomes a line showing the trade-off between education and financial stress. And when viewed together, the story becomes clearer: today’s students are being financially outpaced by their environment.

I will use this storyboard as the foundation for my Part III draft in Shorthand, where I will refine the narrative, integrate the Tableau visualizations, and strengthen the overall flow and clarity.

Text here!

# User research 

## Target audience
> Include your approach to identifying representative individuals, and who you hope to reach with your story. 

Text here!

## Interview script
> List the goals from your research, and the questions you intend to ask. 

Text here!

| Goal | Questions to Ask |
|------|------------------|
|      |                  |
|      |                  |
|      |                  |


Text here!

## Interview findings
> Detail the findings from your interviews.  Do not include PII.  Capture specific insights where possible.

Text here!

| Questions               | Interview 1 (briefly describe) | Interview 2 | Interview 3 |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| Question you asked here | Insightful feedback            |             |             |
|                         |                                |             |             |
|                         |                                |             |             |


# Identified changes for Part III
> Document the changes you plan on implementing next week to address any issues identified.  

Text here!

| Research synthesis                       | Anticipated changes for Part III                                                |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Findings or observations from interviews | Describe what, if any changes you anticipate making to address the observation. |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
| ...add more rows as necessary            |                                                                                 |

> ...include any final thoughts you have here. 

Text here!

# Moodboards / personas
> If you did this optional part, include details here.  Otherwise remove this section

Text here!

## References
_List any references you used here._

## AI acknowledgements
_If you used AI to help you complete this assignment (within the parameters of the instruction and course guidelines), detail your use of AI for this assignment here._

Commit message:

Add introduction on rising student living costs
Added introduction section discussing the rising cost of living for students, including a visualization of housing costs over time.

final-project-part-two.md, after:

| [home page](https://hparmar2907.github.io/hparmar-dataviz-portfolio/) | [data viz examples](dataviz-examples) | [Visualizing Government Debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# From Stability to Strain: How Rising Costs Are Outpacing Student Earnings

# Storyboards
When I began this project, my initial goal was straightforward: I wanted to compare how much housing costs had changed over time. But after classroom feedback and the critique-by-design exercise, it became clear that the story wasn’t just about housing or inflation—it was about something deeper and more relatable. Students today are facing a widening financial gap where the cost of simply existing (rent, food, tuition) is rising much faster than what they earn.

This realization shifted the entire scope of the project. Instead of looking at isolated datasets, I expanded the analysis to include housing CPI, food CPI, tuition costs, and student earnings. Bringing these datasets together allowed me to tell a fuller, more honest story of the student financial reality today—one where budgets are tighter, trade-offs are harsher, and affordability is becoming increasingly out of reach.

The structure of the storyboard follows this progression:

Start with cost-of-living pressures — showing how basic necessities like housing have risen year after year.

Layer in tuition costs — revealing how education affordability has changed in the same timeframe.

Contrast both with student earnings — highlighting the imbalance between rising expenses and stagnant wage growth.

This narrative shift allowed me to move beyond simply describing what costs look like, and instead begin exploring why students feel more financially strained today, even compared with just ten years ago. It also helped uncover a core insight: the issue isn’t just inflation—it’s that income is not keeping pace.

Ultimately, this project is not only about numbers. It’s about understanding the student experience in a landscape where everything feels more expensive except the one thing students rely on the most: their paycheck. A chart about CPI becomes a chart about affordability. A line showing tuition becomes a line showing the trade-off between education and financial stress. And when viewed together, the story becomes clearer: today’s students are being financially outpaced by their environment.

I will use this storyboard as the foundation for my Part III draft in Shorthand, where I will refine the narrative, integrate the Tableau visualizations, and strengthen the overall flow and clarity.

## The Introduction: Understanding the Rising Cost of Living for Students
The story begins with a simple but important question:
How much more expensive has it become to be a student today?

I start with my Housing CPI Over Time visualization, which shows how housing costs have risen sharply from 2015 to 2024. The line isn’t just increasing — it accelerates noticeably after 2021. This chart establishes the foundation: essential living costs have been climbing steadily, and students today are entering a financial environment that is fundamentally more expensive than it was a decade ago.
<div class='tableauPlaceholder' id='viz1763905760416' style='position: relative'><noscript><a href='#'><img alt='Housing Costs Have Risen Sharply Over the Past DecadeMeasured using the Housing Consumer Price Index (CPI), where 1982–84 = 100 (annual average).Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (CPI Housing Index, 2015–2024). ' src='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Pr&#47;ProjectSketch1&#47;Sheet1&#47;1_rss.png' style='border: none' /></a></noscript><object class='tableauViz'  style='display:none;'><param name='host_url' value='https%3A%2F%2Fpublic.tableau.com%2F' /> <param name='embed_code_version' value='3' /> <param name='site_root' value='' /><param name='name' value='ProjectSketch1&#47;Sheet1' /><param name='tabs' value='no' /><param name='toolbar' value='yes' /><param name='static_image' value='https:&#47;&#47;public.tableau.com&#47;static&#47;images&#47;Pr&#47;ProjectSketch1&#47;Sheet1&#47;1.png' /> <param name='animate_transition' value='yes' /><param name='display_static_image' value='yes' /><param name='display_spinner' value='yes' /><param name='display_overlay' value='yes' /><param name='display_count' value='yes' /><param name='language' value='en-US' /><param name='filter' value='publish=yes' /></object></div> <script type='text/javascript'> var divElement = document.getElementById('viz1763905760416');                    var vizElement = divElement.getElementsByTagName('object')[0]; vizElement.style.width='100%';vizElement.style.height=(divElement.offsetWidth*0.75)+'px'; var scriptElement = document.createElement('script');scriptElement.src = 'https://public.tableau.com/javascripts/api/viz_v1.js';vizElement.parentNode.insertBefore(scriptElement, vizElement);</script>

# User research 

## Target audience
> Include your approach to identifying representative individuals, and who you hope to reach with your story. 

Text here!

## Interview script
> List the goals from your research, and the questions you intend to ask. 

Text here!

| Goal | Questions to Ask |
|------|------------------|
|      |                  |
|      |                  |
|      |                  |


Text here!

## Interview findings
> Detail the findings from your interviews.  Do not include PII.  Capture specific insights where possible.

Text here!

| Questions               | Interview 1 (briefly describe) | Interview 2 | Interview 3 |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| Question you asked here | Insightful feedback            |             |             |
|                         |                                |             |             |
|                         |                                |             |             |


# Identified changes for Part III
> Document the changes you plan on implementing next week to address any issues identified.  

Text here!

| Research synthesis                       | Anticipated changes for Part III                                                |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Findings or observations from interviews | Describe what, if any changes you anticipate making to address the observation. |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
|                                          |                                                                                 |
| ...add more rows as necessary            |                                                                                 |

> ...include any final thoughts you have here. 

Text here!

# Moodboards / personas
> If you did this optional part, include details here.  Otherwise remove this section

Text here!

## References
_List any references you used here._

## AI acknowledgements
_If you used AI to help you complete this assignment (within the parameters of the instruction and course guidelines), detail your use of AI for this assignment here._
